my name is Zack with competitive
cyclists and today we are checking out
the Assos Xango sunglasses like many of
their cycling garments also from Assos
the ziggo is a very unique and
distinctly purpose-driven design but it
really doesn't follow any of the design
conventions that you'll see in a lot of
other sporting optics the carl zeiss
lens is actually made of poly meat
instead of polycarbonate and the reason
for that is it is exceptionally
lightweight and extremely flexible
without any loss in clarity or
Distortion one of the things I was most
impressed with with the sago is it's
incredible lightness most of that really
is due in part to the the polyamide lens
but the frame as a whole the entire
piece is just exceptionally lightweight
it has very little heft to it at all now
you'll also notice that the lens profile
of the sago doesn't follow what you'd
see in most typical sports sunglasses
like the Oakley radar or the Pitt lock
from Smith both of which use either a
seven or an eight base curvature which
is designed to shield your face these a
go is actually doesn't follow any of
those base curvature conventions you can
see it has kind of a bulbous lens shape
and the reason for that is esos wanted
the lens to map to the contours of your
face as opposed to again just shielding
it so the end result is a really really
unique almost an anatomical fit for your
face the lens has been treated with carl
zeiss is repelled coating which
essentially resists dust buildup
scratches smudges and also resists light
moisture as well to clean the lens
you'll just need a little mild soap and
water and the included chamois that
comes with the package to keep the lens
comfortably situated on your face the
saiga also comes with a fully adjustable
nose piece which you can use to get the
lens to sit higher or lower depending on
your nose shape for the fit against the
side of your head the polycarbonate arms
of the Saiga are significantly shorter
than weigh again what you'd find on most
conventional sunglasses and they're also
curved downward and that's to keep them
out of the way of your retention straps
in your helmet now it's worth noting
that the lens is actually not
interchangeable and this seems
counterintuitive to a lot of what goes
on in the sport sunglass industry where
everybody has an interchangeable
sunglass however zeiss incorp
did a really dramatic gradient in the
lens between the top and the bottom
where it's much darker at the top and
much lighter at the bottom Carl Zeiss
calls this tunnel lens technology which
essentially gives you a lighter portion
of the lens to look through if you
happen to dive into a tunnel faster than
your eyes have time to adjust giving
your perfect clarity for those darker
portions however the lenses are
available in two options this is the
noir and that is an all black frame with
the grey lens with the dramatic gradient
it's also available in amplify and
that's with the same all-black frame and
a high contrast yellow lens that's
perfect for cloudy days or low-light
conditions when you need maximum
contrast and clarity now another design
convention that assets decided to forego
with days ago is actually the lenses are
not available with the polarization
filter and the reason for that is if
you're out riding after a storm or in
wet weather sometimes a polarization
filter can eliminate the white light or
glare that's built up in a puddle or
wetness on the road thereby creating a
potentially dangerous situation making
the puddle difficult to see so without a
polarization filter you'll be able to
see everything on the road but the
lenses are dark enough and reduced more
than enough glare for even the sunniest
days out on the road it's just an
absolutely massive lens but it's so
light you put it on you absolutely
forget that you're wearing it included
in the spectacular package for the sago
you get a white leather carrying case
and a microfiber chamois for cleaning
the lenses if you have any questions
about the sago please feel free to give
our team of bike experts a call or leave
a comment below